README.md, before:

# gradle crossbuild scala plugin
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/prokod/gradle-crossbuild-scala.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/prokod/gradle-crossbuild-scala)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/prokod/gradle-crossbuild-scala/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/prokod/gradle-crossbuild-scala)
[![Automated Release Notes by gren](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A4%96-release%20notes-00B2EE.svg)](https://github-tools.github.io/github-release-notes/)
[![Gradle Plugin Portal](https://img.shields.io/maven-metadata/v/https/plugins.gradle.org/m2/com/github/prokod/gradle-crossbuild/com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild.gradle.plugin/maven-metadata.xml.svg?colorB=007ec6&label=gradle%20plugin)](https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild)

## Features
- **Multi-module projects support** Supports both simple projects and multi-module projects.<br>In multi-module projects support mixed cases where only some of the modules needs cross compiling.
- **Powerful DSL** Plugin DSL can be written once for all sub projects using `subprojects {}` block.<br>Specific DSL definition can be afterwards added to individual sub projects.<br>It supports shorthands to avoid repetitions.<br>Operates in both eager and lazy (wrapped in `pluginManager.withPlugin {}` block) `apply` modes.
- **Integrates with maven-publish plugin** When used, can be leveraged to publish cross building artifacts.
- **Implicit/Explicit scala lib dependency declaration** Supports declaring both<br>simple case implicit `compile 3rd-party-scala-lib_?` type of dependencies<br>and also more complex explicit `crossBuild212Compile 3rd-party-platform-scala-lib-x-y-z_2.12` platform type of dependencies.
- **Applied easily on existing projects** As the plugin maintains a strict separation between `main` source set configurations and `crossBuildXXX` ones, a simple non cross build project can be easily and gradually transformed to a cross build one.
- **Testing support**  As mentioned above strict separation of source sets, keeps `main` source set test configurations intact.

## Shortcomings
- *Cross building for test/check tasks* are not supported.

## Getting the plugin
#### Using the plugin DSL:
```groovy
plugins {
    id "com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild" version "0.8.2"
}
```  
    
#### Using legacy plugin application
```groovy
buildscript {
    dependencies {
        classpath("com.github.prokod:gradle-crossbuild-scala:0.8.2")
    }
}
```

## Quick start
### cross building
- Applying the plugin and using its DSL

    ```groovy
    archivesBaseName = 'lib'

    apply plugin: 'com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild'

    crossBuild {
        builds {
            v211
            v212
        }
    }
    ```

    ```groovy
    dependencies {
        compile ("com.google.protobuf:protobuf-java:$protobufVersion")
        compile ("joda-time:joda-time:$jodaVersion")
        // The question mark is being replaced based on the scala version being built
        compile ("org.scalaz:scalaz_?:$scalazVersion")
    }
    ```

- `gradle tasks`

    `gradle-crossbuild` plugin adds the following user faced tasks to the project `crossBuild211Classes`, `crossBuild211Jar`, `crossBuild212Classes`, `crossBuild212Jar` based on the plugin DSL `builds {}` block

    ```sh
    > ./gradlew tasks

    ------------------------------------------------------------
    All tasks runnable from root project
    ------------------------------------------------------------

    Build tasks
    -----------
    assemble - Assembles the outputs of this project.
    build - Assembles and tests this project.
    buildDependents - Assembles and tests this project and all projects that depend on it.
    buildNeeded - Assembles and tests this project and all projects it depends on.
    classes - Assembles main classes.
    clean - Deletes the build directory.
    crossBuildV211Classes - Assembles cross build v211 classes.
    crossBuildV211Jar - Assembles a jar archive containing 211 classes
    crossBuildV212Classes - Assembles cross build v212 classes.
    crossBuildV212Jar - Assembles a jar archive containing 212 classes
    jar - Assembles a jar archive containing the main classes.
    testClasses - Assembles test classes.
    ...
    ```

- <code>gradle crossBuild*V211*Jar crossBuild*V212*Jar ...</code>

    ```sh
    > ./gradlew crossBuildV211Jar crossBuildV212Jar
    ...
    Tasks to be executed: [task ':compileCrossBuildV211Java', task ':compileCrossBuildV211Scala', task ':processCrossBuildV211Resources', task ':crossBuildV211Classes', task ':crossBuildV211Jar', task ':compileCrossBuildV212Java', task ':compileCrossBuildV212Scala', task ':processCrossBuildV212Resources', task ':crossBuildV212Classes', task ':crossBuildV212Jar']
    ...
    :crossBuildV211Jar (Thread[Connection worker,5,main]) completed. Took 0.04 secs.
    ...
    :crossBuildV212Jar (Thread[Connection worker,5,main]) completed. Took 0.007 secs.

    > ls ./build/libs
    lib_2.11.jar  lib_2.12.jar
    ```
    
#### Notes
-  <a name="builds_dsl_short_hand"></a>When defining `builds {}` block, a short hand convention can be used for default values.
  To be able to use that, `build` item should be named by the following convention, for example:
  `xyz211` is translated to `{ "build": { "scalaVersions": ["2.11"], "name": "xyz211" ... }`
- When using a dependency with '?' in `compile/implementation` configuration i.e `compile ("org.scalaz:scalaz_?:$scalazVersion")`, the plugin will replace this placeholder with the scala version defined in `builds {}` block according to the requested cross build variant/s.
- `test/check` tasks are not being cross compiled and they use the default scala version.<br>
  However, `compile/implementation` scala dependencies with '?' are being resolved according to the explicit neighbour `scala-library` dependency.<br>
  If a user would like to run tests with different scala versions, he needs to change the relevant scala library version and neighbouring 3rd party scala dependencies in build.gradle

### cross building with publishing  
Leveraging gradle maven-publish plugin for the actual publishing

```groovy
apply plugin: 'com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild'
apply plugin: 'maven-publish'

group = 'x.y.z'
archivesBaseName = 'lib'

crossBuild {
    builds {
        v211
    }
}

// 'maven-publish' plugin usage for publishing crossbuild artifacts
publishing {
    publications {
        // Create a publication
        crossBuildV211(MavenPublication) {
            // By default groupId equals group
            groupId = 'x.y.z'
            // By default artifactId is set to crossBuildJar task `baseName`
            artifactId = 'lib_2.11'
            // actual artifact for this publication as a Jar task from crossbuild plugin
            artifact crossBuildV211Jar
        }
    }
}
...
```

- `gradle tasks`

    Notice that now the following publish related user faced tasks are added to the project:

    ```sh
    > ./gradlew tasks

    ------------------------------------------------------------
    All tasks runnable from project :lib
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    ...
    Publishing tasks
    ----------------
    generatePomFileForCrossBuild211Publication - Generates the Maven POM file for publication 'crossBuild211'.
    publish - Publishes all publications produced by this project.
    publishCrossBuild211PublicationToMavenLocal - Publishes Maven publication 'crossBuild211' to the local Maven repository.
    publishToMavenLocal - Publishes all Maven publications produced by this project to the local Maven cache.
    ```

- `gradle publishToMavenLocal`

    ```sh
    > ./gradlew publishToMavenLocal
    ...
    Tasks to be executed: [task ':compileCrossBuild211Java', task ':compileCrossBuild211Scala', task ':processCrossBuild211Resources', task ':crossBuild211Classes', task ':crossBuild211Jar', task ':generatePomFileForCrossBuild211Publication', task ':publishCrossBuild211PublicationToMavenLocal', task ':publishToMavenLocal']
    ...
    ```

#### Notes
- To update 'maven-publish' cross-build related publications, 'gradle-crossbuild' plugin leverages Gradle's `pluginManager`.
- Behind the scenes Configurations <code>crossBuild*XYZ*MavenCompileScope</code>, <code>crossBuild*XYZ*MavenRuntimeScope</code> are being populated from corresponding <code>crossBuild*XYZ*CompileClasspath</code>, <code>crossBuild*XYZ*RuntimeClasspath</code> and afterwards being used within `pom.withXml {}` block.
    It follows a similar line of thought as `conf2ScopeMappings.addMapping()` in Gradle's maven plugin.
    Beware, Behind the scenes the jars and the publications are decoupled, the logical linkage between a cross built Jar and the publication is made by:
    - Either ensuring `artifactId` matches plugin resolved artifactId
    - Or giving the publication item a name of the following convention <code>crossBuild*XYZ*(MavenPublication)</code> where XYZ is the build name from `builds {}` block followed by `_210`, `_211`, `_212` etc. in most cases (except for [short hand build item naming scenario](#builds_dsl_short_hand)).
- For Gradle 5.x beware that `publishing {}` block does not support deferred configuration anymore and in that case `artifact crossBuild211Jar` should be wrapped in `afterEvaluate {}` block<br>
  Please see Gradle documentation [here](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/publishing_maven.html#publishing_maven:deferred_configuration)

### cross building DSL
`targetVersionItem.archiveAppendix`, `crossBuild.scalaVersionsCatalog`, `crossBuild211XXX` pre defined configurations

```groovy
apply plugin: 'com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild'

crossBuild {
    scalaVersionsCatalog = ['2.10': '2.10.6', '2.11': '2.11.12', '2.12':'2.12.8' ...]

    archive.appendixPattern = '_?'          // Default appendix pattern for all builds

    builds {
        v210
        v211 {
            scalaVersions = ['2.11']        // By default derived from build name in short hand build name
            archive.appendixPattern = '_?'  // By default the value is "_?"
                                            // In the default case will yield '_2.11')
                                            // If different from upper level config, it will override it.
        }
    }
}
```

```groovy
dependencies {
    compile ("com.google.protobuf:protobuf-java:$protobufVersion") 
    compile ("joda-time:joda-time:$jodaVersion")
    // The question mark is being replaced based on the scala version being built
    compile ("org.scalaz:scalaz_?:$scalazVersion")
    compile ('org.scala-lang:scala-library:2.11.12')                        // 'default' building flavour scala library needed for test/check tasks in case '?' dependencies are declared
    
    compileOnly ('org.apache.spark:spark-sql_2.11:2.2.1')                   // 'default' building flavour (when calling gradle build)
    crossBuildV210CompileOnly ('org.apache.spark:spark-sql_2.10:1.6.3')     // A configuration auto generated by the plugin
    crossBuildV211CompileOnly ('org.apache.spark:spark-sql_2.11:2.2.1')     // A configuration auto generated by the plugin
}
```

#### Notes
- If `crossBuild.scalaVersionsCatalog` is not defined, a default one will be used (might get outdated).
- Per build item in `builds {}` block, Scala version(s) is set either by explicitly setting `build.scalaVersions` or implicitly through `build.name`.<br>
  See the different [build scenarios](#build_scenarios) for more details
- **Declaring cross building dependencies explicitly**:
  ```groovy
  crossBuild {
    builds {
      v210
      v211
    }
  }
  
  dependencies {
    compileOnly ('org.apache.spark:spark-sql_2.11:2.2.1')
    crossBuildV210CompileOnly ('org.apache.spark:spark-sql_2.10:1.6.3')
    crossBuildV211CompileOnly ('org.apache.spark:spark-sql_2.11:2.2.1')
  }
  ```
  The plugin DSL defines in the above `crossBuild {}` block two cross building variants. One for Scala **2.10** and one for **2.11**.<br>
  When declaring **explicit** cross building dependency, for instance when using Spark or Kafka 3rd party libraries, when dependency library name contains platform version, All the different variants should be declared, like shown above.<br>  
- **default-variant** In the above example, the spark version of the dependency specified for `compileOnly` configuration which we refer here as **default-variant** one for `build`, `test/check` tasks only.
  The other dependency specified for Scala versions **2.10**, **2.11** respectively (`crossBuild210Compile/Only`, `crossBuild211Compile/Only`), will be used only for `crossBuild210Jar`, `crossBuild211Jar`, and other corresponding task variants (`publishCrossBuild210PublicationToMavenLocal`, `publishCrossBuild211PublicationToMavenLocal` ...)
- The plugin provides pre defined configurations (sourceSets) being used by the matching pre generated Jar tasks:<br>
  crossBuild211Jar -> crossBuild211Compile, crossBuild211CompileOnly, ...

### <a name="build_scenarios"></a>`builds {}` -> Gradle SourceSets, Configurations and Tasks
The following table shows some commonly build scenarios expressed through the plugin DSL and how they are actually resolved

| build scenario | SourceSet/s    | Configurations/s | Task/s |
|----------------|----------------|------------------|--------|
|<pre>`v210`</pre>          | crossBuild*V210* | <ul><li>crossBuild*V210*Compile</li><li>crossBuild*V210*CompileOnly</li><li>crossBuild*V210*Runtime</li><li>crossBuild*V210*CompileClasspath</li></ul> | <ul><li>JavaPlugin -> crossBuild*V210*Java</li><li>ScalaPlugin -> crossBuild*V210*Scala</li><li>crossBuild*V210*Jar</li></ul> |
|<pre>`v211 {`<br/>`    scalaVersions = ['2.11', '2.12']`<br/>`}`</pre> | crossBuild*V211_211*, crossBuild*V211_212* | <ul><li>crossBuild*V211_211*Compile<br/>...</li><li>crossBuild*V211_212*Compile<br/>...</li></ul> | <ul><li>JavaPlugin -> crossBuild*V211_211*Java, crossBuild*V211_212*Java</li><li>ScalaPlugin -> crossBuild*V211_211*Scala, crossBuild*V211_212*Scala</li><li>crossBuild*V211_211*Jar, crossBuild*V211_212*Jar</li></ul> |
|<pre>`v213 {`<br/>`    scalaVersions = ['2.13']`<br/>`}`</pre> | crossBuild*V213* | <ul><li>crossBuild*V213*Compile<br/>...</li></ul> | <ul><li>JavaPlugin -> crossBuild*V213*Java</li><li>ScalaPlugin -> crossBuild*V213*Scala</li><li>crossBuild*V213*Jar</li></ul> |
|<pre>`spark24 {`<br/>`    scalaVersions = ['2.11', '2.12']`<br/>`}`</pre> |  crossBuild*Spark24_211*, crossBuild*Spark24_212* | <ul><li>crossBuild*Spark24_211*Compile<br/>...</li><li>crossBuild*Spark24_212*Compile<br/>...</li></ul> | <ul><li>JavaPlugin -> crossBuild*Spark24_211*Java, crossBuild*Spark24_212*Java</li><li>ScalaPlugin -> crossBuild*Spark24_211*Scala, crossBuild*Spark24_212*Scala</li><li>crossBuild*Spark24_211*Jar, crossBuild*Spark24_212*Jar</li></ul> |

### multi-module project
To apply cross building to a multi-module project use one of the following suggested layouts:

#### layout 1 (a.k.a lazy apply)
- In the root project build.gradle:
```groovy
plugins {
    id "com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild" version '0.8.2' apply false
}

allprojects {
    apply plugin: 'base'
    group = 'x.y.z'
    version = '1.0-SNAPSHOT'

    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }

    pluginManager.withPlugin('com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild') {
        crossBuild {

            scalaVersionsCatalog = ['2.11':'2.11.12', '2.12':'2.12.8']

            builds {
                spark240_211
                spark243_212
            }
        }
    }

    pluginManager.withPlugin('maven-publish') {
        publishing {
            publications {
                crossBuildSpark240_211(MavenPublication) {
                    artifact crossBuildSpark240_211Jar
                }
                crossBuildSpark243_212(MavenPublication) {
                    artifact crossBuildSpark243_212Jar
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```
- In sub projects' build.gradle:
```groovy
apply plugin: 'com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild'
...
```

#### layout 2 (a.k.a eager apply)
- In the root project build.gradle:
```groovy
plugins {
    id "com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild" version '0.8.2' apply false
}

allprojects {
    group = 'x.y.z'
    version = '1.0-SNAPSHOT'

    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }
}

subprojects {
    apply plugin: 'com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild'
    apply plugin: 'maven-publish'

    crossBuild {

        scalaVersionsCatalog = ['2.11':'2.11.12', '2.12':'2.12.8']

        builds {
            spark233_211 {
                archive.appendixPattern = '-2-3-3_?'
            }
            spark243 {
                scalaVersions = ['2.11', '2,12']
                archive.appendixPattern = '-2-4-3_?'
            }
        }
    }

    publishing {
        publications {
            crossBuildSpark233_211(MavenPublication) {
                artifact crossBuildSpark233_211Jar
            }
            crossBuildSpark243_211(MavenPublication) {
                artifact crossBuildSpark243_211Jar
            }
            crossBuildSpark243_212(MavenPublication) {
                artifact crossBuildSpark243_212Jar
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Supported Gradle versions
|plugin version | Tested Gradle versions |
|---------------|------------------------|
|0.8.x          | 4.2, 4.10.3, 5.4.1     |
|0.4.x          | 2.14, 3.0, 4.1         |

Commit message:

To refactor internal configuration handling
- To add objects that handles systematically all relations between a
  main configuration and it's linked cross build configuration counter
  part
- To handle `implementation` configuration
- To add test to verify bug was fixed
- To remove some done/stale todos

README.md, after:

# gradle crossbuild scala plugin
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/prokod/gradle-crossbuild-scala.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/prokod/gradle-crossbuild-scala)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/prokod/gradle-crossbuild-scala/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/prokod/gradle-crossbuild-scala)
[![Automated Release Notes by gren](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A4%96-release%20notes-00B2EE.svg)](https://github-tools.github.io/github-release-notes/)
[![Gradle Plugin Portal](https://img.shields.io/maven-metadata/v/https/plugins.gradle.org/m2/com/github/prokod/gradle-crossbuild/com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild.gradle.plugin/maven-metadata.xml.svg?colorB=007ec6&label=gradle%20plugin)](https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild)

## Features
- **Multi-module projects support** Supports both simple projects and multi-module projects.<br>In multi-module projects support mixed cases where only some of the modules needs cross compiling.
- **Powerful DSL** Plugin DSL can be written once for all sub projects using `subprojects {}` block.<br>Specific DSL definition can be afterwards added to individual sub projects.<br>It supports shorthands to avoid repetitions.<br>Operates in both eager and lazy (wrapped in `pluginManager.withPlugin {}` block) `apply` modes.
- **Integrates with maven-publish plugin** When used, can be leveraged to publish cross building artifacts.
- **Implicit/Explicit scala lib dependency declaration** Supports declaring both<br>simple case implicit `compile 3rd-party-scala-lib_?` type of dependencies<br>and also more complex explicit `crossBuild212Compile 3rd-party-platform-scala-lib-x-y-z_2.12` platform type of dependencies.
- **Applied easily on existing projects** As the plugin maintains a strict separation between `main` source set configurations and `crossBuildXXX` ones, a simple non cross build project can be easily and gradually transformed to a cross build one.
- **Testing support**  As mentioned above strict separation of source sets, keeps `main` source set test configurations intact.

## Shortcomings
- *Cross building for test/check tasks* are not supported.
- *No support for java-library plugin* java-library `api`, `apiComponents` and `runtimeComponents` configurations are not supported yet.

## Getting the plugin
#### Using the plugin DSL:
```groovy
plugins {
    id "com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild" version "0.8.2"
}
```  
    
#### Using legacy plugin application
```groovy
buildscript {
    dependencies {
        classpath("com.github.prokod:gradle-crossbuild-scala:0.8.2")
    }
}
```

## Quick start
### cross building
- Applying the plugin and using its DSL

    ```groovy
    archivesBaseName = 'lib'

    apply plugin: 'com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild'

    crossBuild {
        builds {
            v211
            v212
        }
    }
    ```

    ```groovy
    dependencies {
        compile ("com.google.protobuf:protobuf-java:$protobufVersion")
        compile ("joda-time:joda-time:$jodaVersion")
        // The question mark is being replaced based on the scala version being built
        compile ("org.scalaz:scalaz_?:$scalazVersion")
    }
    ```

- `gradle tasks`

    `gradle-crossbuild` plugin adds the following user faced tasks to the project `crossBuild211Classes`, `crossBuild211Jar`, `crossBuild212Classes`, `crossBuild212Jar` based on the plugin DSL `builds {}` block

    ```sh
    > ./gradlew tasks

    ------------------------------------------------------------
    All tasks runnable from root project
    ------------------------------------------------------------

    Build tasks
    -----------
    assemble - Assembles the outputs of this project.
    build - Assembles and tests this project.
    buildDependents - Assembles and tests this project and all projects that depend on it.
    buildNeeded - Assembles and tests this project and all projects it depends on.
    classes - Assembles main classes.
    clean - Deletes the build directory.
    crossBuildV211Classes - Assembles cross build v211 classes.
    crossBuildV211Jar - Assembles a jar archive containing 211 classes
    crossBuildV212Classes - Assembles cross build v212 classes.
    crossBuildV212Jar - Assembles a jar archive containing 212 classes
    jar - Assembles a jar archive containing the main classes.
    testClasses - Assembles test classes.
    ...
    ```

- <code>gradle crossBuild*V211*Jar crossBuild*V212*Jar ...</code>

    ```sh
    > ./gradlew crossBuildV211Jar crossBuildV212Jar
    ...
    Tasks to be executed: [task ':compileCrossBuildV211Java', task ':compileCrossBuildV211Scala', task ':processCrossBuildV211Resources', task ':crossBuildV211Classes', task ':crossBuildV211Jar', task ':compileCrossBuildV212Java', task ':compileCrossBuildV212Scala', task ':processCrossBuildV212Resources', task ':crossBuildV212Classes', task ':crossBuildV212Jar']
    ...
    :crossBuildV211Jar (Thread[Connection worker,5,main]) completed. Took 0.04 secs.
    ...
    :crossBuildV212Jar (Thread[Connection worker,5,main]) completed. Took 0.007 secs.

    > ls ./build/libs
    lib_2.11.jar  lib_2.12.jar
    ```
    
- Another variant would be
    ```groovy
    archivesBaseName = 'lib'

    apply plugin: 'com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild'

    crossBuild {
        builds {
            scala {
                scalaVersions = ['2.11', '2.12']
            }
        }
    }
    ```
    
#### Notes
-  <a name="builds_dsl_short_hand"></a>When defining `builds {}` block, a short hand convention can be used for default values.
  To be able to use that, `build` item should be named by the following convention, for example:
  `xyz211` is translated to `{ "build": { "scalaVersions": ["2.11"], "name": "xyz211" ... }`
- When using a dependency with '?' in `compile/implementation` configuration i.e `compile ("org.scalaz:scalaz_?:$scalazVersion")`, the plugin will replace this placeholder with the scala version defined in `builds {}` block according to the requested cross build variant/s.
- `test/check` tasks are not being cross compiled and they use the default scala version.<br>
  However, `compile/implementation` scala dependencies with '?' are being resolved according to the explicit neighbour `scala-library` dependency.<br>
  If a user would like to run tests with different scala versions, he needs to change the relevant scala library version and neighbouring 3rd party scala dependencies in build.gradle

### cross building with publishing  
Leveraging gradle maven-publish plugin for the actual publishing

```groovy
apply plugin: 'com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild'
apply plugin: 'maven-publish'

group = 'x.y.z'
archivesBaseName = 'lib'

crossBuild {
    builds {
        v211
    }
}

// 'maven-publish' plugin usage for publishing crossbuild artifacts
publishing {
    publications {
        // Create a publication
        crossBuildV211(MavenPublication) {
            // By default groupId equals group
            groupId = 'x.y.z'
            // By default artifactId is set to crossBuildJar task `baseName`
            artifactId = 'lib_2.11'
            // actual artifact for this publication as a Jar task from crossbuild plugin
            artifact crossBuildV211Jar
        }
    }
}
...
```

- `gradle tasks`

    Notice that now the following publish related user faced tasks are added to the project:

    ```sh
    > ./gradlew tasks

    ------------------------------------------------------------
    All tasks runnable from project :lib
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    ...
    Publishing tasks
    ----------------
    generatePomFileForCrossBuild211Publication - Generates the Maven POM file for publication 'crossBuild211'.
    publish - Publishes all publications produced by this project.
    publishCrossBuild211PublicationToMavenLocal - Publishes Maven publication 'crossBuild211' to the local Maven repository.
    publishToMavenLocal - Publishes all Maven publications produced by this project to the local Maven cache.
    ```

- `gradle publishToMavenLocal`

    ```sh
    > ./gradlew publishToMavenLocal
    ...
    Tasks to be executed: [task ':compileCrossBuild211Java', task ':compileCrossBuild211Scala', task ':processCrossBuild211Resources', task ':crossBuild211Classes', task ':crossBuild211Jar', task ':generatePomFileForCrossBuild211Publication', task ':publishCrossBuild211PublicationToMavenLocal', task ':publishToMavenLocal']
    ...
    ```

#### Notes
- To update 'maven-publish' cross-build related publications, 'gradle-crossbuild' plugin leverages Gradle's `pluginManager`.
- Behind the scenes Configurations <code>crossBuild*XYZ*MavenCompileScope</code>, <code>crossBuild*XYZ*MavenRuntimeScope</code> are being populated from corresponding <code>crossBuild*XYZ*CompileClasspath</code>, <code>crossBuild*XYZ*RuntimeClasspath</code> and afterwards being used within `pom.withXml {}` block.
    It follows a similar line of thought as `conf2ScopeMappings.addMapping()` in Gradle's maven plugin.
    Beware, Behind the scenes the jars and the publications are decoupled, the logical linkage between a cross built Jar and the publication is made by:
    - Either ensuring `artifactId` matches plugin resolved artifactId
    - Or giving the publication item a name of the following convention <code>crossBuild*XYZ*(MavenPublication)</code> where XYZ is the build name from `builds {}` block followed by `_210`, `_211`, `_212` etc. in most cases (except for [short hand build item naming scenario](#builds_dsl_short_hand)).
- For Gradle 5.x beware that `publishing {}` block does not support deferred configuration anymore and in that case `artifact crossBuild211Jar` should be wrapped in `afterEvaluate {}` block<br>
  Please see Gradle documentation [here](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/publishing_maven.html#publishing_maven:deferred_configuration)

### cross building DSL
`targetVersionItem.archiveAppendix`, `crossBuild.scalaVersionsCatalog`, `crossBuild211XXX` pre defined configurations

```groovy
apply plugin: 'com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild'

crossBuild {
    scalaVersionsCatalog = ['2.10': '2.10.6', '2.11': '2.11.12', '2.12':'2.12.8' ...]

    archive.appendixPattern = '_?'          // Default appendix pattern for all builds

    builds {
        v210
        v211 {
            scalaVersions = ['2.11']        // By default derived from build name in short hand build name
            archive.appendixPattern = '_?'  // By default the value is "_?"
                                            // In the default case will yield '_2.11')
                                            // If different from upper level config, it will override it.
        }
    }
}
```

```groovy
dependencies {
    compile ("com.google.protobuf:protobuf-java:$protobufVersion") 
    compile ("joda-time:joda-time:$jodaVersion")
    // The question mark is being replaced based on the scala version being built
    compile ("org.scalaz:scalaz_?:$scalazVersion")
    compile ('org.scala-lang:scala-library:2.11.12')                        // 'default' building flavour scala library needed for test/check tasks in case '?' dependencies are declared
    
    compileOnly ('org.apache.spark:spark-sql_2.11:2.2.1')                   // 'default' building flavour (when calling gradle build)
    crossBuildV210CompileOnly ('org.apache.spark:spark-sql_2.10:1.6.3')     // A configuration auto generated by the plugin
    crossBuildV211CompileOnly ('org.apache.spark:spark-sql_2.11:2.2.1')     // A configuration auto generated by the plugin
}
```

#### Notes
- If `crossBuild.scalaVersionsCatalog` is not defined, a default one will be used (might get outdated).
- Per build item in `builds {}` block, Scala version(s) is set either by explicitly setting `build.scalaVersions` or implicitly through `build.name`.<br>
  See the different [build scenarios](#build_scenarios) for more details
- **Declaring cross building dependencies explicitly**:
  ```groovy
  crossBuild {
    builds {
      v210
      v211
    }
  }
  
  dependencies {
    compileOnly ('org.apache.spark:spark-sql_2.11:2.2.1')
    crossBuildV210CompileOnly ('org.apache.spark:spark-sql_2.10:1.6.3')
    crossBuildV211CompileOnly ('org.apache.spark:spark-sql_2.11:2.2.1')
  }
  ```
  The plugin DSL defines in the above `crossBuild {}` block two cross building variants. One for Scala **2.10** and one for **2.11**.<br>
  When declaring **explicit** cross building dependency, for instance when using Spark or Kafka 3rd party libraries, when dependency library name contains platform version, All the different variants should be declared, like shown above.<br>  
- **default-variant** In the above example, the spark version of the dependency specified for `compileOnly` configuration which we refer here as **default-variant** one for `build`, `test/check` tasks only.
  The other dependency specified for Scala versions **2.10**, **2.11** respectively (`crossBuild210Compile/Only`, `crossBuild211Compile/Only`), will be used only for `crossBuild210Jar`, `crossBuild211Jar`, and other corresponding task variants (`publishCrossBuild210PublicationToMavenLocal`, `publishCrossBuild211PublicationToMavenLocal` ...)
- The plugin provides pre defined configurations (sourceSets) being used by the matching pre generated Jar tasks:<br>
  crossBuild211Jar -> crossBuild211Compile, crossBuild211CompileOnly, ...

### <a name="build_scenarios"></a>`builds {}` -> Gradle SourceSets, Configurations and Tasks
The following table shows some commonly build scenarios expressed through the plugin DSL and how they are actually resolved

| build scenario | SourceSet/s    | Configurations/s | Task/s |
|----------------|----------------|------------------|--------|
|<pre>`v210`</pre>          | crossBuild*V210* | <ul><li>crossBuild*V210*Compile</li><li>crossBuild*V210*CompileOnly</li><li>crossBuild*V210*Runtime</li><li>crossBuild*V210*CompileClasspath</li></ul> | <ul><li>JavaPlugin -> crossBuild*V210*Java</li><li>ScalaPlugin -> crossBuild*V210*Scala</li><li>crossBuild*V210*Jar</li></ul> |
|<pre>`v211 {`<br/>`    scalaVersions = ['2.11', '2.12']`<br/>`}`</pre> | crossBuild*V211_211*, crossBuild*V211_212* | <ul><li>crossBuild*V211_211*Compile<br/>...</li><li>crossBuild*V211_212*Compile<br/>...</li></ul> | <ul><li>JavaPlugin -> crossBuild*V211_211*Java, crossBuild*V211_212*Java</li><li>ScalaPlugin -> crossBuild*V211_211*Scala, crossBuild*V211_212*Scala</li><li>crossBuild*V211_211*Jar, crossBuild*V211_212*Jar</li></ul> |
|<pre>`v213 {`<br/>`    scalaVersions = ['2.13']`<br/>`}`</pre> | crossBuild*V213* | <ul><li>crossBuild*V213*Compile<br/>...</li></ul> | <ul><li>JavaPlugin -> crossBuild*V213*Java</li><li>ScalaPlugin -> crossBuild*V213*Scala</li><li>crossBuild*V213*Jar</li></ul> |
|<pre>`spark24 {`<br/>`    scalaVersions = ['2.11', '2.12']`<br/>`}`</pre> |  crossBuild*Spark24_211*, crossBuild*Spark24_212* | <ul><li>crossBuild*Spark24_211*Compile<br/>...</li><li>crossBuild*Spark24_212*Compile<br/>...</li></ul> | <ul><li>JavaPlugin -> crossBuild*Spark24_211*Java, crossBuild*Spark24_212*Java</li><li>ScalaPlugin -> crossBuild*Spark24_211*Scala, crossBuild*Spark24_212*Scala</li><li>crossBuild*Spark24_211*Jar, crossBuild*Spark24_212*Jar</li></ul> |

### `implementation` configuration and `java-library` plugin
`implementation` java plugin based configuration is supported by the plugin and cross build variants will be added to the cross build projects. <br/> 
When using `implementation` configuration in a multi module project together with cross build plugin applied a suggestion is to read [java-library plugin doc](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/java_library_plugin.html) before hand, especially for new comers from Maven, `compile`/`runtime` users. <br/>
As the cross building plugin is not supporting yet `java-library` plugin there is no counter part to `implementation` by the form of `api` configuration and to emulate that one should use `compile` configuration instead

### multi-module project
To apply cross building to a multi-module project use one of the following suggested layouts:

#### layout 1 (a.k.a lazy apply)
- In the root project build.gradle:
```groovy
plugins {
    id "com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild" version '0.8.2' apply false
}

allprojects {
    apply plugin: 'base'
    group = 'x.y.z'
    version = '1.0-SNAPSHOT'

    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }

    pluginManager.withPlugin('com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild') {
        crossBuild {

            scalaVersionsCatalog = ['2.11':'2.11.12', '2.12':'2.12.8']

            builds {
                spark240_211
                spark243_212
            }
        }
    }

    pluginManager.withPlugin('maven-publish') {
        publishing {
            publications {
                crossBuildSpark240_211(MavenPublication) {
                    artifact crossBuildSpark240_211Jar
                }
                crossBuildSpark243_212(MavenPublication) {
                    artifact crossBuildSpark243_212Jar
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```
- In sub projects' build.gradle:
```groovy
apply plugin: 'com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild'
...
```

#### layout 2 (a.k.a eager apply)
- In the root project build.gradle:
```groovy
plugins {
    id "com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild" version '0.8.2' apply false
}

allprojects {
    group = 'x.y.z'
    version = '1.0-SNAPSHOT'

    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }
}

subprojects {
    apply plugin: 'com.github.prokod.gradle-crossbuild'
    apply plugin: 'maven-publish'

    crossBuild {

        scalaVersionsCatalog = ['2.11':'2.11.12', '2.12':'2.12.8']

        builds {
            spark233_211 {
                archive.appendixPattern = '-2-3-3_?'
            }
            spark243 {
                scalaVersions = ['2.11', '2,12']
                archive.appendixPattern = '-2-4-3_?'
            }
        }
    }

    publishing {
        publications {
            crossBuildSpark233_211(MavenPublication) {
                artifact crossBuildSpark233_211Jar
            }
            crossBuildSpark243_211(MavenPublication) {
                artifact crossBuildSpark243_211Jar
            }
            crossBuildSpark243_212(MavenPublication) {
                artifact crossBuildSpark243_212Jar
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Supported Gradle versions
|plugin version | Tested Gradle versions |
|---------------|------------------------|
|0.8.x          | 4.2, 4.10.3, 5.4.1     |
|0.4.x          | 2.14, 3.0, 4.1         |
